---
layout:post
---
A while ago, I was having this periodically occuring Oh-I-have-been-such-a-fool realisation. A realisation that included the feeling that I should somehow hold on to these little epiphanies, carefully preserve them in a cloud of thought that I could save up in some corner of my memory, float on it now and then and enrich it with my thought journeys. A cloud that I could truly share with someone else who might go through the same predicaments in their life. Someone who would truly be my own - a part of me which would actually be a whole in itself. All in my thoughts. 
It somehow made me feel responsible, more embedded in the current matrix of my existence, and happier. Oh, yeah, a lot happier!


---

# My daughter..


If I have a daughter, I’ll make sure,

that she be a lot more than just one more.

I’ll let her know that the world isn’t round or flat,

that there isn’t any good or bad,

extremes overwhelm in theory and debates,

but to experience one, you need to forget.

I’ll make her make a promise – that come what may,

you’ll make your life worth all the consuming.

Come what may, you’ll always take care of yourself

and stay committed to your state of being.

Accept who you are and who you want to be.

Girl, you will have to make a choice often between what is right and what is easy,

but do not ever mix it with what is happiness and what is greed.

Realise this, empathising with others is much easy, but with yourself,

you just cannot.

You love deep and you love hard,

be thoroughly passionate and stubbornly hold on to your relations,

but don’t you ever expect.

Because,

we expect to expect happiness, though we know not what makes us happy.

So, do not regret and do not try to synthesise natural happiness,

this is but, the greatest paradox of our times.

There may come times when you know not what to do,

at times such as these, take a pause and flood in your senses with the reality of the moment.

But don’t you let your guard down or move back on your lines.

People will tell you all that they know,

and you may get swayed by the strong feelings of “strong” people,

but don’t you ever feel that you are not.

Don’t you ever start playing with yourself on the rules of others,

and don’t you dare stop opening up.

Be it your ideas or emotions, feel them all around you.

Remember that you are surrounded by this big, beautiful world out there,

that no one can stop you from the cheers of explore!

Feel love and feel care for all things around you, see them in all their beauty and glory,

but don’t you dare attach emotions to every nook and every corner.

Don’t forget to fall madly in love with someone,

but also don’t forget to fall in love often!

Learn from others, help others and make them feel good,

but while helping yourself and working towards a greater good.

Girl, when you face people, remember to smile,

although often you may feel that there is no rhyme.

For, when you mingle and when you mix,

you realise that it all needs just a little fix.

There may be times when you feel as if you’re in fairyland,

your own space, your own time.

Don’t spoil those moments by imploring yourself to believe in worldly illusions.

You might experience a mixture of magic and melodrama,

do query the rationale, but don’t overlook the beauty.

Girl, when people in front of you present their ideas and emotions,

do realise the work that goes within to come up and come out.

Respect versatility and trust, believe in innovation and self assessment.

You might come across colleagues and circumstances that highlight your holes,

so instead of feeling hollow, take heed and get full,

but also make sure you do the same.

Do not ever mistake someone’s kindness and care for trifle or philander.

Remember, other than self proclaims and flare, there’s a lot more.

You might get dazed by others’ boasts and find yourself tazed,

you might feel as if you have been wasting your time all this while,

that you dint learn as much as they did, that somehow you are behind,

you are slow, you aren’t steady, but then what if they do not belong to your zone of time?

You just hold on and be strong, keep doing your stuff and keep strutting it in all its glory.

Do not hurry or take up tasks for beacons in your profile,

do not always associate speed with intellect, a singular spontaneous system response mustn’t be the only

thing met.

Take pride in yourself, girl! The only thing you be serious about be yourself!

Always try to look at situations from a higher dimension,

your plane is but skewed by the biases of yours and your kind.

Do not mix gaining multi dimensional perspective with over thinking,

do not assume yourself to be thought tired or an effaced inkling.

Make it a target for yourself to keep learning, and sleep not without having gained.

But remember, the knowledge that you cannot test, present and defend, is the knowledge that you have

never attained.

Twice might be a mistake and thrice might be despair, but even a millennia is not the end.

Remember, this is your life, your game!

Make choices and stand on your decisions,

do not keep wavering like a weed frisking for support.

Be sure of the things that you want for yourself,

others’ definitions have never even demanded a decent stare,

But be firm enough to pull on and jerk yourself as you constantly move on,

for speaking comes easy and demands no proof,

and battling for your virtues and vices you might get aloof.

Never will you ever caress injustice or revere futility,

or paint your canvas with spine art for people who don’t deserve even a loud fart.

Bow you always to faith and beauty and love and immortality,

but sow you never stipends of inhumanity and absolute infertility.

Always rely on your system of support, and always know

that even when you do not need it, I will be there.

Choose you may the way you wish to live,

but not without contributing to the corners of your productive capacity,

Live you may with all the happiness and love that no mortal being has ever deserved,

but not without wishing and hoping for the goodness of all the known entities.

Eat you may all the worldly and non worldly cheers,

but not without feeding no fares.

Travel you may to the farthest penetrates of light,

See you may all the hyper spacial vibrations,

Feel you may all the fondness,

Greet you may all the, all the stars and all the moons,

but may you just not greet me.

Because,

Oh, my daughter, you are not meant to be.
