---
layout: post
title: Waves!
categories:
- blog
---
People are like waves. They come to you in all shapes and sizes and strike you with varying intensities. Some of these waves might be lucid and quiet, crystal clear for you to see them in their entirety but they pass unnoticed, while most of them would blur you in the eye with their external shimmer and babble, and some just happen out of the blue, the sudden swells that the winds, the sea and the deep crevices of the Earth lap up to you, which you might not be able to truly realize till they have passed by. They always carry treasures from the deepest parts of the world that they have visited, but these treasures might be of any type – pearls and corals, the rarest conches or even mementos of a deeply saddening shipwreck.

How hard is it to sustain one’s own stand and maintain balance when such a plethora of waves strike from every end; each telling its own story, dwelling on its past glory and brimming up with unparalleled energy to create its own history? Every wave affects you in some way, and you affect it in some way. How this happens not only depends on how deep you are in the waters but also on how flexible you are to your environment. If you chose to play safe by being close to the shore, you are sure to be struck by the large and sudden undulations that will strike you any whichever way, but you would lose out on the beauty of the soft ripples that are just perfect for you to catch your fleeting reflections and the various glinting wavelets that would make you feel cold and warm at the same time, making you realize that you can do what everyone else can but you have your own spark. Then you can choose how to move about; whether you want to stand as a rock in the sea, immune to changes and not wanting to get displaced, although getting weathered out in the process, or as a freewheeling weed, getting carried away by the slightest disturbances, living out its life fully as per its chemical composition, unaware of its destination.

How you intend to live, as a wave, depends entirely on you. And how much you intend to live, as yourself, determines how many times you can tide back and continue with your own journey to the different lengths and breadths of the world. So just keep flowing on as you are a wave, and all around you are waves. People are waves.


